+++
authors = ["Ziheng Chen"]
title = "OpenFlights"
date = "2021-05-20"
tags = [
    "c++", "data-structures"
]
aliases = ["cs225"]
+++

[GitHub](https://github.com/JackZihengChen/CS225FinalProject)


## Team Members: zihengc2-haoyu9-yuen9-rmday2

## Deliverables
* [Report](https://github-dev.cs.illinois.edu/cs225-sp21/rmday2-yuen9-zihengc2-haoyu9/blob/master/CS%20225%20Final%20Project%20Report.pdf)
* [Presentation Video](https://youtu.be/r_ltZNUqKkw)
* [Presentation Slides](https://github-dev.cs.illinois.edu/cs225-sp21/rmday2-yuen9-zihengc2-haoyu9/blob/master/CS%20225%20Final%20Project%20Presentation.pdf)

## Introduction
Our final project uses [OpenFlights](https://openflights.org/data.html) airports and routes data to construct a graph of airport vertices.
Djikstra's algorithm is used to find the shortest path between two airports, a Landmark Path algorithm
is used to find the shortest path between two airports with landmarks in between, and a Page Rank algorithm is used to find important airports.

## File description (code and data)
Below are some brief descriptions of the files in our codebase.  Function descriptions can be found in the individual files:
* Airport: the Airport class is used for defining the vertices of our graph structure. Each airport is constructed with a name, an ID, a city, a country, and latitude and longitude coordinates (this data is retrieved from airports.dat)
* Flight: The Flights class is used for constructing the edges (flights) between two airports where the weight edge is the distance between the two
* airport_graph: This is our graphs class that supports the creation and insertion of vertices and edges
* BFS: Implementation of a BFS graph traversal
* Djikstras: Implementation of Djikstra's algorithm to find shortest path
* Landmark: Implementation of Landmark Path algorithm
* PageRank: Implementation of the Page Rank algorithm
* main: Where the tests for the algorithms are located

## How to run the program
The program can be ran by using the 'finalproject' executable:
```
make all
./finalproject
```
The user would then choose the dataset that construct our graph.  
Afterwards, the user would be prompted with instructions on how to run the various operations:
```
(0) Using BFS, traverse all of the graph from a given airport 
(1) Using BFS, traverse a given number of moves of the graph from a given airport
(2) Using BFS, traverse the graph until a destination airport from a given airport
(3) Calculate the shortest path between two airports
(4) Calculate the shortest path between two airports passing one landmark
(5) Calculate the shortest path between two airports passing two landmark
(6) PageRank
```  
The operations may require the user to provide custom inputs.  
After computation, the result would be printed out in the terminal.  
To end the program anytime, use `Ctrl+C`.

## Main function description
Our main function consists of 7 cases where the user can interact with the various parts of our project.  
The user will be able to see the results of running a BFS traversal, Pagerank algorith, Landmark Path algorith, and Djikstra's algorithm.

## Test Description
Our tests can be ran with
```
make test
./test
```  
Our tests test the functionality of
* constructing an Airport 
* constructing a graph
* the Pagerank algorithm
* the BFS traversal
* Djikstra's algorithm
* the Landmark Path algorithm

## References
* [Lecture Materials](https://courses.engr.illinois.edu/cs225/sp2021/)
* [Calculating distances from coordinates](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/program-distance-two-points-earth/)
* [Converting text to string in C++](https://tomeko.net/online_tools/cpp_text_escape.php?lang=en)
