+++
authors = ["Ziheng Chen"]
title = "React.js: New Clear REACTive App"
date = "2022-10-24"
tags = [
    "javascript", "typescript", "react", "axios", "ci/cd", "node.js", "frontend", "web-development"
]
aliases = ["cs409-mp2"]
+++

[Demo](https://zihengjackchen.gitlab.io/cs409-mp2/)

[Source (GitLab)](https://gitlab.com/zihengjackchen/cs409-mp2)

#### Contribution
- Developed a responsive single-page React application as a part of a project to interface with external APIs
- Implemented key features, including a dynamic list view with query-based filtering and sorting options, a gallery view for visual content exploration, and a detailed view for selected items with navigation buttons
- Successfully handled potential `API` interaction challenges, such as unavailability and rate-limiting, by incorporating data mocking strategies and caching solutions
- Utilized `React Router` for effective navigation and route handling within the application
- Employed `Axios` for efficient API calls, ensuring seamless data retrieval and interaction
- Ensured a user-friendly experience by implementing strategic error handling within the application.
- Provided type checking for code reliability using `TypeScript`
- Demonstrated the project's outcome through an example, aligning with outlined requirements and serving as a reference for the envisioned user interface and functionality

#### Project Overview
In this engaging project, I am developing a user-friendly front-end interface using React to interact with various external APIs. The goal is to create a dynamic single-page React app that enables users to explore and interact with data from different domains. The project emphasizes a thoughtful user experience through features such as a list view, gallery view, and detailed item view, providing a seamless and intuitive exploration of API content.The primary objectives of this project include:

1. **Create a Single-Page React App:**
   - Implement a responsive React application that interfaces with external APIs.
   - Utilize one of the provided APIs, such as TMDB, Pokemon, NASA, Marvel, CoinAPI, Balldontlie, or the Art Institute of Chicago.
2. **Handle API Interaction Challenges:**
   - Address potential challenges, such as API unavailability, by implementing data mocking strategies.
   - Navigate rate-limiting policies by considering caching solutions for common API calls.
3. **Incorporate Key Features:**
   - Develop a list view where users can input queries, and the app returns filtered results with sorting options.
   - Design a gallery view displaying visual content (e.g., movie posters) with customizable filtering criteria.
   - Implement a detail view for selected items, featuring an informative display and navigation buttons.
4. **Ensure User-Friendly Error Handling:**
   - Strategically handle errors within the app, enhancing the overall user experience.

#### Tools and Technologies
- **React Router:**
  - Employ React Router for seamless navigation and handling specific routes within the application.

- **Axios:**
  - Leverage Axios for efficient API calls, ensuring smooth data retrieval and interaction.

- **Type Checking:**
  - Choose between PropTypes or TypeScript for robust type checking, enhancing code reliability.