+++
authors = ["Ziheng Chen"]
title = "Database: APIed Piper"
date = "2022-11-11"
tags = [
    "javascript", "typescript", "mongodb", "mongoose", "ci/cd", "node.js", "rest-api", "backend", "web-development"
]
aliases = ["cs409-mp3"]
+++

[Source (GitLab)](https://gitlab.com/zihengjackchen/cs409-mp3)

#### Contribution
- Developed a robust Task Management `API` for startup Llama.io using `Node.js`, `Express`, and `Mongoose`
- Implemented various endpoints for user and task management, allowing CRUD operations with proper error handling
- Designed and utilized data schemas for users and tasks, enhancing data organization and retrieval
- Incorporated additional features, including support for JSON-encoded query string parameters and the `+select+` parameter for flexible data retrieval
- Utilized MongoDB Atlas for database hosting, ensuring a minimum of 20 users and 100 tasks with specified completion status
- Implemented server-side validation for user and task creation to maintain data integrity
- Ensured API responses in JSON format with clear messages, employing appropriate HTTP status codes for success and error scenarios
- Applied Mongoose's methods for efficient query processing and data manipulation
- Followed good coding practices and prioritized error handling to create a reliable and feature-rich API for task management

#### Project Overview
My task is to implement an API with various endpoints, and I should use Node.js, Express, and Mongoose for the implementation. Here are the endpoints I need to create:

- **users**:
  - **GET**: This endpoint should respond with a list of users.
  - **POST**: I should be able to create a new user and get details about the newly created user.
- **users/:id**:
  - **GET**: This endpoint should provide details about a specified user or return a 404 error if the user doesn't exist.
  - **PUT**: I should be able to replace the entire user with the supplied user or get a 404 error if the user isn't found.
  - **DELETE**: I can delete a specified user or receive a 404 error if the user doesn't exist.
- **tasks**:
  - **GET**: This should respond with a list of tasks.
  - **POST**: I should be able to create a new task and get details about the newly created task.
- **tasks/:id**:
  - **GET**: This endpoint should provide details about a specified task or return a 404 error if the task doesn't exist.
  - **PUT**: I can replace the entire task with the supplied task or get a 404 error if the task isn't found.
  - **DELETE**: I can delete a specified task or receive a 404 error if the task doesn't exist.

**Additional Features**:

- The API should support JSON-encoded query string parameters for the GET requests to the `users` and `tasks` endpoints.
- The API should also support the `+select+` parameter for the `users/:id` and `tasks/:id` endpoints.
- The available parameters are: `where`, `sort`, `select`, `skip`, `limit`, and `count`.
- The API should handle any combination of these parameters in a single request.

**User Schema**:

1. "name" - String
2. "email" - String
3. "pendingTasks" - [String] - The IDs of pending tasks for this user.
4. "dateCreated" - Date - Set automatically by the server.

**Task Schema**:

1. "name" - String
2. "description" - String
3. "deadline" - Date
4. "completed" - Boolean
5. "assignedUser" - String - The ID of the user to whom the task is assigned (default is "").
6. "assignedUserName" - String - The name of the user to whom the task is assigned (default is "unassigned").
7. "dateCreated" - Date - Set automatically by the server to the current date.

**Requirements**:

1. I need to host the database on [MongoDB Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas), with a minimum of 20 users and 100 tasks (with about half of them marked as completed). I should also set "Allow access from anywhere" in the IP Whitelist, even though it's not a recommended practice in real-world scenarios.
2. Responses from my API should be in JSON format, containing a `message` field and a `data` field.
3. Error responses should also be in JSON format, with human-readable error messages for display to the user.
4. My API should use appropriate HTTP status codes for both successful and error responses, including 200, 201, 404, and 500.
5. I should implement the query functionality using Mongoose's methods rather than processing data in my Node/Express application.
6. I need to implement server-side validation for various conditions, such as creating users without a name or email, preventing multiple users with the same email, and ensuring tasks have a name and deadline.

This assignment is essentially about creating a robust and feature-rich task management API for my startup, Llama.io, while adhering to good coding practices and error handling.