+++
authors = ["Ziheng Chen"]
title = "Cat face generation with GANs"
date = "2023-04-19"
tags = [
    "python", "pytorch", "numpy", "machine learning", "deep learning", "neural networks", "computer vision"
]
aliases = ["cs444-mp4"]
+++

### Spring 2023 CS444 Assignment 4

[Assignment Page](https://slazebni.cs.illinois.edu/spring23/assignment4.html)

[GitHub](https://github.com/JackZihengChen/CS444-Deep-Learning/tree/main/assignment4%20-%20Cat%20face%20generation%20with%20GANs)

#### Top level file:
`./MP4.ipynb`

#### Description
In this assignment, I'll be training a generative adversarial network (GAN) on a cat dataset with the goal of generating cat face images.

This assignment will provide me with valuable insights into generative models and recurrent neural networks. It's an opportunity to gain hands-on experience in implementing GANs using PyTorch and learning how to augment natural images. Additionally, I'll become familiar with a technique to enhance the quality of images generated by GANs.

The assignment draws inspiration from various sources, including Stanford CS231n Assignments, CMU 16-726 Assignment 3, and PyTorch Tutorials.

The implementation of the GAN will be guided by the top-level notebook named "MP4.ipynb." In this notebook, I will follow the steps required to implement and train two different models: the original GAN and LSGAN, which uses a different loss function. The generator and discriminator network architectures are roughly based on DCGAN. I'll also be working on data augmentation using PyTorch's built-in transforms.

For debugging purposes, there's a dedicated notebook called "GAN_debugging.ipynb." This notebook provides a smaller network that I can use to train on the MNIST dataset. It's recommended to start with the MNIST portion to ensure that the loss functions and training code are correct before moving on to the main assignment. Training the debugging GAN on MNIST takes around five minutes, whereas training the main assignment GAN on the cat dataset takes approximately one hour.


#### [Results](https://github.com/JackZihengChen/CS444-Deep-Learning/blob/main/assignment4%20-%20Cat%20face%20generation%20with%20GANs/zihengc2_yutongz7_mp4_report.pdf)