+++
authors = ["Ziheng Chen"]
title = "Linear classifiers"
date = "2023-02-14"
tags = [
    "python", "numpy", "machine-learning"
]
aliases = ["cs444-mp1"]
+++

[Source (GitHub)](https://github.com/zihengjackchen/CS444-Deep-Learning/tree/main/assignment1%20-%20Linear%20Classifiers)

[Results](https://github.com/zihengjackchen/CS444-Deep-Learning/blob/main/assignment1%20-%20Linear%20Classifiers/zihengc2_yutongz7_mp1_report.pdf)


#### Contributions
- Developed a simple linear classifier and extended the project by implementing four classifiers: Logistic Regression, Perceptron, Support Vector Machine (SVM), and Softmax
- Applied classifiers to diverse datasets, including a binary classification task on the Rice dataset and a multi-class classification challenge with the Fashion-MNIST dataset
- Demonstrated adaptability by adjusting labels and parameter update rules to suit the specific characteristics of each dataset
- Gained hands-on experience in hyperparameter tuning and effectively partitioned data into training, validation, and test sets for robust model evaluation
- Strengthened understanding of classic machine learning methods and enhanced proficiency in scientific computing tools, particularly in Python


#### Project Overview
As part of this project, I have developed a simple linear classifier and am now expanding my work by implementing additional classifiers for two distinct datasets:

1. **Rice Dataset**: This dataset involves binary classification, where the labels are either 0 or 1. Notably, these labels differ from the -1 and 1 labels discussed in our lectures. Consequently, I may need to adjust the labels or modify the parameter update rules accordingly.

2. **Fashion-MNIST**: This dataset focuses on classifying images of various fashion items into multiple categories, presenting a multi-class classification challenge.

The primary goal of this project is to enhance my understanding of classic machine learning methods and improve my proficiency with scientific computing tools in Python. Moreover, I aim to acquire valuable experience in hyperparameter tuning and learn the proper techniques for splitting data into training, validation, and test sets.

My responsibilities include the implementation of four classifiers, each residing in its dedicated Python file:

- **Logistic Regression** (implemented in "logistic.py").
- **Perceptron** (implemented in "perceptron.py").
- **Support Vector Machine (SVM)** (implemented in "svm.py").
- **Softmax** (implemented in "softmax.py").

It's worth noting that multi-class prediction using logistic regression poses a challenge, and as a result, I will exclusively apply logistic regression to the Rice dataset.


[Assignment Page](https://slazebni.cs.illinois.edu/spring23/assignment1.html)
