+++
authors = ["Ziheng Chen"]
title = "LLM: Siri for Network Configuration"
date = "2023-12-15"
description = "Siri for Network Configuration"
tags = [
    "python",
    "large-language-model",
    "batfish",
    "dependable-systems",
    "network"
]
aliases = ["ece598"]
+++

# Siri for Network Configuration

[Source (GitHub)](https://github.com/zihengjackchen/LLM-Network-Configuration)  
[Presentation](https://github.com/zihengjackchen/LLM-Network-Configuration/blob/main/presentation.pdf)  
[Report](https://github.com/zihengjackchen/LLM-Network-Configuration/blob/main/report.pdf)  

## Abstract
Efficiently validating and correcting network configurations is a critical aspect of ensuring the reliability and security of cloud systems. This research explores the use of GPT-4 Turbo, a state-of-the-art Large Language Model (LLM), in identifying and rectifying network configuration errors. The study evaluates its performance on 100 flawed network configuration files, revealing a success rate of 70% without contextual information, improving to 85% accuracy through in-context learning. Future research avenues, including observed hallucinations in LLM-aided validation, are also outlined.

## Summary
This study assesses the effectiveness of GPT-4 Turbo (LLM) in identifying and correcting network configuration faults, using Batfish as a post-correction configuration checker. Results show GPT-4 Turbo excels in detecting syntax-related faults but faces challenges with functional faults requiring specific contexts. We discuss limitations of current validation tools, propose enhancements for better integration with LLMs, and advocate for improved error reporting and domain-specific context provision. Combining LLMs with validation tools can enhance the configuration validation process.

## Usage
- Default configuration: `as2border2.cfg`
- Fault injector: `batfish_injector.py`
- Fault injected configurations by fault category: `/injected_files`
- LLM prompt: `prompt.md` and `prompt_context.md`
- LLM output for each fault-injected configuration: `/output`

Feel free to explore the provided configurations and scripts to understand and utilize the capabilities of GPT-4 Turbo for network configuration validation.